# UrlShortener

To run the project simply create .env file in the same directory as your settings.py (/shortener by default),
and run the `docker-compose up` command

### Project description

I did my best to keep the amount of code to be as low as possible with providing all the necessary functionalities, along with some of the best practices. I decided not to use any fancy cryptographic algorithms to shorten the URL, because after some research i determined that it doesn't decrease probability of collision, and simple random string allows us freedom in configuring desired length of the short URL. 

I've written some basic tests to ensure core functionality works at all times. 

### Usage

The project includes swagger for convenience. By default, its available at `localhost:8000/api/docs/`

### Functionalities

Based on business requirements we might want the short urls to be generated by random, or deterministic using some hashing algorithm.
Both approaches have their pros and cons. I have prepared both solutions, you can switch between them by changing `DETERMINISTIC` flag in your `.env` file.

### Tests

Tu run tests use `docker compose exec api pytest .` command

### Notes
I was going to make the original_url unique, but after playing around with tinyurl,
and realising it offers user provided short urls i decided against it.

### Notes about possible improvements
I've decided not to implement any of the things I've described below, as the description of the task incentivized simplicity, but i think the app can be improved by including:
- Simple authorization
- Removing URLs created by anonymous users with a celery task after certain amount of time.
- Adding database field counting click for urls.
